title page from Manuale tipografico, 1818. The crisp clarity of Bodoni’s letterforms are echoed by the scotch rules. Composed of double and triple thick-and-thin elements, these rules and borders echo the weight contrasts of Bodoni’s modern types."
ornamental fonts, Boston, 1867."
"Swedish Song Quartett" poster, 1867. Arched words move gracefully above seven carefully composed musicians. Large capital letters point to the three soloists, establishing a visual relationship between word and image."
page from A Apple Pie, 1886. By leaving out the background, Greenaway simplified her page designs and focused on the figures."
poster for Scribner’s, 1895. Although the exquisite beauty of the "Gibson Girls" was captured with facility and control, Gibson was unconcerned with the design of type and image as a cohesive whole. In this poster the printer added text in incompatible typefaces."
title page for Wren’s City Churches, 1883. Mackmurdo’s plant forms are stylized into flamelike, undulating rhythms that compress the negative space between them. This establishes a positive and negative interplay between black ink and white paper."
woodcut from The Hobby Horse, 1886. The potential of shape and pattern as visual means to express thought and feeling is realized in this graphic elegy for illustrator/engraver Arthur Burgess. A black bird flies toward the sun over mournful downturned tulips that hover above flaming leaves."
title page spread from The Works of Geoffrey Chaucer, 1896."
pages from the Doves Press Bible, 1903. This book’s purity of design and flawless perfection of craft have seldom been equaled."
pages from Deirdre & de zonen van Usnach (Deirdre and the Sons of Usnach), by A. Roland Holst, Palladium Series, 1920."
South Wind, Clear Dawn, c. 1830–32. This woodcut of Mount Fuji struck by early morning light is also called Red Fuji."
Champs-Èlysée" (Ice Palace, Champs-Èlysée), 1893. Parisian elegance, a carefree grace, and astounding technical mastery are present. The figures create a lively play of angles, linking the top and bottom lettering. As with many of Chéret’s larger posters, it was necessary to print "Palais de Glace" in two sections."
exhibition poster, c. 1894. Quietly demure instead of exuberant, Grasset’s figures project a resonance very different from that of the Chérette."
poster, "La Goulue au Moulin Rouge," 1891. Shapes become symbols; in combination, these signify a place and an event."
poster, "Tournée du Chat Noir de Rodolphe Salis," 1896."
Gismonda poster, 1894. The life-size figure, mosaic pattern, and elongated shape created an overnight sensation."
trademark for General Electric, c. 1890. This design satisfies the requirements of a successful trademark: it is unique, legible, and unequivocal, which explains why it has survived decades of fluctuating design approaches. (A registered trademark of General Electric Company, used by permission.)"
poster for Harper’s, 1897. Spatial compression similar to a telephoto lens converts five overlapping figures into a rhythmic two-dimensional pattern."
poster for Tropon food concentrate, 1899. This swirling configuration may have been inspired by the separation of egg yolks from egg whites."
poster for Delftsche Slaolie (Delft Salad Oil), 1894. Printed in yellow and lavender, this poster becomes kinetic through its undulating linear rhythms and close-valued complementary colors."
The Kiss, 1898. This six-color woodcut, controversial for its androgynous imagery, was first reproduced in Pan magazine."
poster for the Scottish Musical Review, 1896. In this towering image that rises 2.5 meters (over 8 feet) above the spectator, complex overlapping planes are unified by areas of flat color. The white ring and birds around the figure create a strong focal point."
poster for the first Vienna Secession exhibition, 1898. The large open space in the center is unprecedented in Western graphic design."
cover design for Ver Sacrum, 1899. A stencil-effect technique for creating images has an affinity, in its reduction of the subject to black and white planes, with high-contrast photography."
poster for the thirteenth Vienna Secession exhibition, 1902. Mathematical patterns of squares and rectangles contrast with the circular forms of the figures and letterforms."
Akzidenz Grotesk typefaces, 1898–1906. An elegant system of weight contrast is achieved in these pioneering letter-forms."
AEG trademark, 1907. The new mark was consistently applied to buildings, stationery, products, and graphics."
revised by Edward Johnston in 1918, is shown in the 1972 version used today."
Man with Violin, 1911–12. In the analytical cubism phase, Picasso and Braque studied the planes of a subject from different vantage points, fractured them, and pulled them forward toward the canvas surface. The planes shimmer vibrantly in ambiguous positive and negative relationships one to another."
page from La fin du monde, 1919. A whirlwind tour of the re-creation of the earth after the fall of man is illustrated by a pinwheel of lettering spelling "accelerated slow motion cinema."
page from Parole in libertá futuriste (Futurist Words-in-Freedom), 1932."
typographic image, 1866. Unexpected and totally different from the rest of Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, this graphic experiment in figurative typography has received both design and literary acclaim."
cover for Depero futurista, 1927. Bound by massive chrome bolts, this book expresses its status as a physical object."
pages from Merz 11, 1924. Ads for Pelikan tusche and inks demonstrate Schwitters’s growing interest in constructivism during the 1920s."
AIZ 9, number 6, page 103, illustration attacking the press, 1930. A surreal head wrapped in newspaper appears over a headline: "Whoever reads the bourgeois press turns blind and deaf. Away with the stultifying bandages!"
poster for Priester matches, c. 1905. Color became the means of projecting a powerful message with minimal information."
poster for Hermanns & Froitzheim clothing, 1910."
poster for Germany’s eighth bond drive, 1917. Eight arrows piercing a dragon remind citizens that their gifts have helped wound the enemy."
poster heralding German submarines, c. 1916. A powerful structural joining of type and image proclaimed, "U-Boats Out!"
"Und Du?" (And You?) poster, 1932. In the elections of 1932 and 1933 this poster was used, with different slogans, by both the Steel Helmet and the German National People’s parties. The German imperial flag serves as a backdrop for the sculptural head and helmet."
poster for the London Underground, 1930. Art deco is dominant in this poster suggesting the power of the London Underground."
poster for the ocean liner L’Atlantique, 1931. The ship is constructed on a rectangle, echoing the poster’s rectangular edges."
poster for the London Underground, 1924. Color conveys the comfort of warmer temperatures in the underground railway during winter."
PROUN 23, no. 6, 1919. Lissitzky developed visual ideals about balance, space, and form in his paintings, which became the basis for his graphic design and architecture."
"Beat the Whites with the Red Wedge," 1919. The Bolshevik army emblem, a red wedge, slashes diagonally into a white sphere signifying Aleksandr Kerensky’s "white" forces. The slogan’s four words are placed to reinforce the dynamic movement."
book cover for The Isms of Art, 1924. Complex typographic information is organized into a cohesive whole by the construction of structural relationships."
paperback book covers for the Jim Dollar series, 1924. Consistency is achieved through standardized format; montages illustrate each story."
film poster for The Man with the Movie Camera, 1929. Spatial dislocation is achieved by extreme perspective, circular type, and the fragmented figure."
book cover, 1925. The essence of De Stijl is conveyed."
cover forDe Stijl, 1922. Type is asymmetrically balanced in the four corners of an implied rectangle.De Stijl is combined with the lettersN andB, which indicatedNieuwe Beelden (New Images)."
model for the Schroeder House, Utrecht, 1924. A new architecture is composed of planes in a square."
cover design for Ženení a vdávání (Getting Married), 1929. The triangle creates a strong focal point, unifies the silhouette figures, and becomes the main structural element in a delicately balanced composition."
cover ofNejmenší dum (Minimum Housing), 1931."
cover forModerni architektura v ceskoslovensku (Modern Czechoslovakian Architecture), 1930."
title page spread for i10, 1927. The printer was deeply disturbed by this design, with its words running vertically, bold sans-serif type placed into serif text for emphasis, bullets separating paragraphs, and bold bars next to page numbers."
later Bauhaus seal, 1922. Comparison of the two seals demonstrates how graphic designs express ideas; the later seal connotes the emerging geometric and machine orientation."
cover design, Staatliches Bauhaus in Weimar, 1919–1923, 1923. Geometrically constructed letterforms printed in red and blue on a black background are compressed into a square."
Dessau Bauhaus building, 1925–26. This architectural landmark has a series of parts—workshop (shown here), classroom, dormitory, and administrative structures—unified into a whole."
proposed streetcar station and newsstand, 1924. A concise modular unit, designed for economical mass production, combines an open waiting area, newsstand, and rooftop advertising panels."
brochure cover for the series of fourteen Bauhaus books, 1929. Two photoprints of metal type are collaged together to create an unusual spatial configuration. Colored ink is printed on the numeral 14."
exhibition poster, 1926. Type and image are arranged in a functional progression of size and weight from the most important information to supporting details."
cover for "Elementare Typographie" insert, 1925. A sparse, open functionalism is achieved."
brochure for his book Die neue Typographie, 1928. This brochure functions as a remarkable didactic example of the principles Tschichold was advocating."
the Gill Sans type family, 1928–30. This typeface has been widely used, especially in England."
Futura typefaces, 1927–30. The extensive range of sizes and weights provided vigorous contrasts for printers and designers who adopted the new typography."
pages from the English-language NKF cableworks catalogue, 1926. Repetition and contrast reinforce the verbal message."
brochure cover for the Berkel Model Z scales, before 1929. Arrows moving from the large word ZOO (meaning "so") create a double headline: "So clear—every dash 5 grams" and "So small—20 centimeters [wide]." This brochure was printed by letterpress from typographic material assembled on the press bed from Schuitema’s layout."
Swiss tourism poster, 1935. The photographic montage has a graphic vigor signifying the spatial experience of mountain height."
pages from Harper’s Bazaar, October 1938. The forms and texture of the experimental photograph are amplified and complemented by the typographic design."
editorial photographic spread from Harper’s Bazaar, November 1935. Rejecting the conventions of the studio, Munkacsi allowed the natural movements of his models to suggest innovative possibilities."
editorial photographic spread from Harper’s Bazaar, July 1950. Brodovitch’s art direction is clearly seen in the cropping and use of size contrast."
poster for the Office of Emergency Management, 1941. Visual and verbal elements are inseparably interlocked in an intense symbol of productivity and labor."
poster supporting polio research, 1949. The diagonal shaft of the test tube leads the eye from the red and blue headline to the flowing yellow light that is beginning to dawn, linking the elements in the same manner as the thick black bars of Bayer’s Bauhaus work."
poster for an office professions exhibition, 1928. Traces of the grid squares used to construct this poster remain as the thin white lines between the letters."
calendar cover for Standard Elektrik Lorenz AG, 1957. A radial configuration symbolizes transmission and radiation using the client’s radio and telephone products."
schematic diagram of the twenty-one Univers fonts, 1954. Frutiger systematically altered the forms of fonts located on this chart above, below, and to the left or right of Univers 55."
Helvetica typeface, 1961. The basic version of Helvetica released by the Stempel foundry in 1961 is shown, along with some of the variations developed later."
Der Film exhibition poster, 1960. Against a black field, the word Film is white, the word der is gray, and the other typography is red."
announcement for the MIT ocean engineering program, 1967. Typography sits above an X-ray of a chambered nautilus shell superimposed on a wavelike repetition of fluid blue shapes."
poster for a computer programming course at MIT, 1969. The term COBAL emerges from a kinetic construction of modular letters."
logo for The Man with the Golden Arm, 1955. This consistent and memorable visual identifier was flexible enough for uses ranging from minute newspaper advertisements to large-scale posters."
cover for Common Sense and Nuclear Warfare, c. 1958. The atomic blast became a visual metaphor for the human brain, graphically echoing the title."
insert for Homage to the Book portfolio, 1968."
advertisement for Woman’s Day, 1953. In this double-page advertisement from the New Yorker magazine, the perfectly round Futura o’s form bicycle wheels."
Esquire cover, April 1968. Muhammad Ali posed as Saint Sebastian, who was condemned by Roman emperor Diocletian and shot by archers."
poster for the Olivetti 82 Diaspron, c. 1958. A schematic diagram depicting a typewriter key’s mechanical action combines with a photograph to communicate two levels of information."
IBM trademark, 1956. The original design is shown with outline versions and the eight- and thirteen-stripe versions currently used."
"Eye Bee M" poster, 1981. Using the rebus principle, Rand designed this poster for the presentation of the Golden Circle award, an in-house IBM occasion. Although Rand eventually prevailed, it was temporarily banned, as it was felt that it would encourage IBM staff designers to take liberties with the IBM logo."
logo poster for the Nineteenth Olympiad, 1966."
informational graphics for the Munich Olympiad, 1972. Pictographs function as signifiers and illustrations."
MTV logo, 1981."
poster for Pirelli, 1954. The strength of a bull elephant is bestowed on the tire by the surrealist technique of image combination."
antiwar poster, 1953. A passionate statement is reduced to just one word: No!""
Bob Dylan poster, 1967. Transcending subject and function, this image became a symbolic crystallization of its time."
Dada and surrealism exhibition poster, 1968. The smaller table isolates the word real within the longer word surrealism."
Judy Garland poster, c. 1960. The vibrant flat colors aptly express the resonance of her singing. Chwast uses his own typeface Blimp for the title."
poster for Tribune de Lausanne, 1955."
concert poster for the Grateful Dead, Junior Wells Chicago Blues Band, and the Doors, 1966. Hand-drawn line art is printed in intensely vibrating colors."
poster for Othello, 1978. The pathos of the play is expressed by an image within an image: a tattered poster hanging on a wire fence in front a bleak apartment complex."
poster honoring the Cuban people, c. 1970. Leaders and workers are cheerfully depicted in a comic book drawing style and bright, intense color."
direct mail folder for Anton Schöb printers, 1981. Dynamic color and shape create an expressive backdrop for the message."
Beethoven Festival poster, 1983. Beethoven’s passion is signaled by the corresponding forms of flame and hair."
poster for CBS records, 1979. The synthesis of contradictory sources of inspiration, in this case Russian constructivism and nineteenth-century wood-type posters, is often a springboard to innovation."
cover for CSA Archive Catalog of Stock Art, 1995. The heaviness of bold black type and illustration are tempered by an underlay of abstract shapes in three warm colors."
editorial pages for the Face, no. 59, March 1985. Type and image become objects composed against each other to achieve a dynamic whole."
"Language Is a Deadly Weapon" graphic for MTV’s "Free Your Mind" campaign, 1994. Derogatory terms for women are presented to increase sensitivity to the effect of slang upon others."
poster for Expo ’85, 1982. An international housing exposition is signified by exploded structural forms."
"Water," poster, 2002. The message for water conservation is a barren lake bed that forms the body of a dead fish."
"Andere Zeiten" (Other Times), poster for Internationale Literaturtage Erlangen, 1997."
stamps for commemorating Cascais 2007 ISAF Sailing World Championships, 2006."
cover for the German magazine Kultur Revolution, February 1986."
poster for the Jeonju International Film Festival, 2002."
poster for Visual Experiments, an exhibition of his own work, 2002."
"Remember Vietnam," poster, 1994. This poster refers to the use of the dangerous herbicide Agent Orange during the Vietnam War."
cover for Emigre, no. 11, 1989. Three levels of visual information are layered in dimensional space."
"Is Techno Dead?,"Ray Gun, 1994. Text type and spatial intervals join with computer-manipulated photographs in a rhythmic melody of white and dark shapes."
Gotham typeface, c. 2000."
Neue Helvetica Arabic, 2009."
main title design for Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, 2005."
poster for the 1995–96 season of the Public Theatre, New York."
El Museo Mexicano promotional poster, 1995."
visual identity and posters for Marhaba, 2006. Koeweiden’s poster series reflects the celebratory atmosphere surrounding the opening of an Islamic cultural center in Amsterdam."
Blood, Toil, Tears, and Sweat, letterpress edition print, 2004. This print was created for the exhibition Public Address System in London and Berlin, 2004."

